# cInd820
The Consumer Price Index (CPI) measures the monthly changes in the prices paid by the consumers in Canada. The CPI captures the consumer price changes for a determined basket of goods and services. The basket of goods and services include items such as food; shelter; household operations, furnishings and equipment; clothing and footwear; transportation; health and personal care; recreation, education and reading, and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products and recreational cannabis (https://www.bankofcanada.ca/rates/price-indexes/cpi). The CPI is one of the most used measures to arrive at inflation, which is closely followed by the Bank of Canada to inform its monetary policy and to enact strategies to control inflation.  Changes in CPI will impact the spending habits of consumers and over time have an impact on inflation. 

The increase in CPI leads to increases in inflation which impacts the purchasing power of consumers and in turn has an impact on inflation. In addition, inflation is susceptible to volatility stemming from elements other than CPI, such as war or pandemics (e.g. COVID-19). The government's goal, in this case Bank of Canada, is to keep inflation low, which keeps the money's value and consumers are better able to plan their spending (2).
This paper will examine the monthly Canadian CPI since 1971 to present day. The dataset includes data on the individual goods used to calculation CPI. 

This paper will analyze the data and trends of CPI. Predictive models will be developed to assess which of the items in the fixed basket of goods has a larger influence on changes to CPI and predict changes to inflation. 
This project will utilize Python for the exploratory data analysis, data preprocessing, predictive modeling, and model evaluation. The predictive models will be based on multiple linear regression 

We will be using two models in Python to predict inflation. The first model will be multiple linear regression and the second is random forest. We will then evaluate the performance of these two models by using KFold cross validation model. To build a predictive model we will be using several packages available in the tool to analyze the data, visualize it and construct the predictive model needed to for this project. Before we build the models we will review the data set downloaded from the Bank of Canada repository and complete data preparation, data cleaning and analyses. Next, the data will be prepared for the predictive modeling using multiple linear regression and random forest. 
The paper will conclude with a predictive model which aims to predict the next inflation point, will provide a good understanding of the best model to use to predict inflation, as well as understand which of the commodities prices baskets influence Total CPI

